Add K-HPMR Thermomechanics Model (#831)
idaholab/virtual_test_bed: doc/content/microreactors/mrad/mrad_k_hpmr_thermomechanics_results.md

> # Multiphysics Results

Reviewer: Please add an HPC resources table as shown on https://virtualtestbed.inl.gov/template.html to tell users what kind of resources were used to run your models.

Author: run command and hpc resources are added.

A comprehensive multiphysics analysis of the 1/6 core HP-MR model was carried out for 
nominal steady-state operation and a load following transient scenario, coupling the 

> Griffin CFEM-SN(1,3) neutronics solver, the BISON thermomechanical physics solver, and the Sockeye heat pipe solver.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Griffin DFEM-SN(1,3) neutronics solver, the BISON thermomechanical physics solver, and the Sockeye heat pipe solver.
```

Author: Revised to DFEM

| Avg. Heat Pipe Surface Temperature | K | 835.60 | 835.58 |
| $k_{eff}$ | n/a | 1.0484555 | 1.0485662 |

The thermomechanical model results are in close agreement with those from the thermal-only model, with differences attributable to the inclusion of thermal expansion. The predicted $k_{eff}$ values are 1.0484555 and 1.0485662 for the thermomechanics and thermal-only models, respectively — a reduction of only 0.0001107 $\Delta k$, or less than 0.01% $\Delta k/k$. Temperature predictions are similarly consistent, with average fuel temperatures of 844.84 K and 844.83 K - deviations of no more than 0.01 K. Maximum and minimum temperatures across all material regions likewise agree to within 0.05 K ([hpmr_ss_pt]).

These results confirm that, under nominal steady-state conditions, the inclusion of thermal expansion effects introduces negligible perturbations to the neutronics and thermal response of the HP-MR. The effective core geometry change due to thermal deformation is sufficiently small that neither neutron leakage nor the spatial power distribution is meaningfully altered, and the thermal feedback remains essentially unchanged between the two models.

> The primary benefit of the thermomechanical model is providing spatially resolved stress and strain distributions throughout the fuel compact ([hpmr_ss_disp]), which are entirely inaccessible from the thermal-only analysis. This enables more rigorous evaluation of TRISO fuel particle performance under irradiation conditions.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The primary benefit of the thermomechanical model is providing spatially resolved stress and strain distributions throughout the fuel compact ([hpmr_ss_disp]), which are not computed from the thermal-only analysis. This enables more rigorous evaluation of TRISO fuel particle performance under irradiation conditions.
```

Author: Revised as suggested.

!media media/mrad/K-HPMR_SS_PowTemp.png
       style=display: block;margin-left:auto;margin-right:auto;width:60%;
       id=hpmr_ss_pt
       caption=Steady-state fuel compact power density and temperature

!media media/mrad/K-HPMR_SS_Disp.png
       style=display: block;margin-left:auto;margin-right:auto;width:60%;
       id=hpmr_ss_disp
       caption=Steady-state fuel compact and whole core displacements

## Load Following Transient Results

A sudden reduction in secondary-loop heat removal initiates the load following transient. With condenser-side heat removal rendered nearly ineffective, heat pipe temperatures increase, driving up core temperature. This activates the reactor's inherent negative temperature reactivity feedback mechanism that autonomously suppresses reactor power.

> This is clearly reflected in the core's thermal and power histories ([hpmr_lf_powtemp]). As the transient begins, average fuel and moderator temperatures increase, reaching a peak of ~900 K near t = 100 s. Simultaneously, the temperature-induced negative reactivity feedback rapidly curtails reactor power, which settles at ~50 kW within 200 seconds with no further significant variation. As this power suppression takes hold, temperatures recede and approach a new equilibrium of 846 K for the fuel and the moderator within the first 1000 seconds of the event. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This is clearly reflected in the core's thermal and power histories ([hpmr_lf_powtemp]). As the transient begins, average fuel and moderator temperatures increase, reaching a peak of ~900 K near t = 100 s. Simultaneously, the temperature-induced negative reactivity feedback rapidly curtails reactor power, which settles at ~50 kW within 200 seconds with no further significant variation. As this power suppression takes hold, temperatures recede and approach a new equilibrium of 846 K for the fuel and the moderator within the first 1,000 seconds of the event. 
```

Author: Comma added.

!media media/mrad/K-HPMR_TR_PowTemp.png
       style=display: block;margin-left:auto;margin-right:auto;width:100%;
       id=hpmr_lf_powtemp
       caption=Time evolution of reactor power, peak, and average fuel compact and moderator temperatures during the load following transient

> The structural deformation of core tracks this thermal evolution ([hpmr_lf_disp_mag]). During the initial temperature excursion, thermal expansion causes an immediate increase in core displacement, peaking at a magnitude of approximately $1.4\text{ mm}$. Because the bottom surface is constrained, the largest displacements occur near the upper region of the core. As temperatures stabilize, the thermal expansion relaxes into a new nominal deformation profile.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The structural deformation of the core tracks this thermal evolution ([hpmr_lf_disp_mag]). During the initial temperature excursion, thermal expansion causes an immediate increase in core displacement, peaking at a magnitude of approximately $1.4\text{ mm}$. Because the bottom surface is constrained, the largest displacements occur near the upper region of the core. As temperatures stabilize, the thermal expansion relaxes into a new nominal deformation profile.
```

Author: Revised.

!media media/mrad/K-HPMR_TR_Mag.png
       style=display: block;margin-left:auto;margin-right:auto;width:50%;
       id=hpmr_lf_disp_mag
       caption=Average displacement as a function of core height and time during the load following transient.

> Examination of the displacement components ([hpmr_lf_disp_comp]) indicates that the overall deformation is dominated by axial expansion (disp_z). The resulting deformation field remains continuous throughout the transient, indicating that the load following event produces a predictable, thermally driven expansion rather than introducing localized mechanical distortion or significant differential expansion.

Reviewer 2: > rather than introducing localized mechanical distortion or significant differential expansion.

you're not modeling anything that could do that though. If you were modeling contact with some form of grid/plate holding the assemblies you could maybe see strain concentrations

Author: Paragraph is revised to clearly describe model behavior and its limitations.
